docs(api): new_modules.rst revsions for Flex (#13143)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/new_modules.rst

Hardware Modules
################

Hardware modules are powered and unpowered deck-mounted peripherals. The Flex and OT-2 are aware of deck-mounted powered modules when they're attached via a USB connection and used in an uploaded protocol. The robots do not know about unpowered modules until you use one in a protocol and upload it to the Opentrons App.

Powered modules include the :ref:`Temperature Module <temperature-module>`, :ref:`Magnetic Module <magnetic-module>`, :ref:`Thermocycler Module <thermocycler-module>`, and :ref:`Heater-Shaker Module <heater-shaker-module>`. The 96-well :ref:`Magnetic Block <magnetic-block>` is an unpowered module.

.. Note::
    

>     Most of the following code examples use alphanumeric Flex deck slot locations (e.g. ``D1``, ``D2``, etc.). If you have an OT-2 and are using API version 2.14 or earlier, replace the Flex deck slot coordinate with its OT-2 equivalent. For example, Flex slot D1 corresponds to slot 1 on an OT-2. See :ref:`deck-slots` for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Most of the following code examples use coordinate deck slot locations (e.g. ``'D1'``, ``'D2'``), like those found on Flex. If you have an OT-2 and are using API version 2.14 or earlier, replace the coordinate with its numeric OT-2 equivalent. For example, slot D1 on Flex corresponds to slot 1 on an OT-2. See :ref:`deck-slots` for more information.
```
This is the exact language from the latest revision of Labware.

************
Module Setup
************

Loading Modules onto the Deck
=============================

Similar to labware and pipettes, you must inform the API about the modules you want to use in your protocol. Even if you don't use the module anywhere else in your protocol, the Opentrons App and the robot won't let you start the protocol run until all loaded modules that use power are connected via USB and turned on.

Use :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.load_module` to load a module. 

.. tabs::
    
    .. tab:: Flex

        .. code-block:: python
            :substitutions:

>             requirements = {"robotType": "Flex", "apiLevel": "|apiLevel|"}

Reviewer: If we're going all the way up to the requirements block we might as well include `from opentrons import protocol_api` too.

Author: Will do.

            def run(protocol: protocol_api.ProtocolContext): 

>                 # Load a Heater-Shaker in deck slot D1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                # Load a Heater-Shaker Module GEN1 in deck slot D1.
```
for parallelism

   | Heater-Shaker      | ``heaterShakerModuleV1``      | 2.13                      |
   | Module             |                               |                           |
   +--------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------+
   | Magnetic Block     | ``magneticBlockV1``           | 2.15                      |
   | GEN1               |                               |                           |
   +--------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------+

> Some modules were added to our python API later than others, and others span multiple hardware generations. When writing a protocol that requires a module, make sure your ``requirements`` or ``metadata`` code block specifies a :ref:`Protocol API version <v2-versioning>` high enough to support all the module generations you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some modules were added to our Python API later than others, and others span multiple hardware generations. When writing a protocol that requires a module, make sure your ``requirements`` or ``metadata`` code block specifies a :ref:`Protocol API version <v2-versioning>` high enough to support all the module generations you want to use.
```
🐍 🆙

> Some modules were added to our python API later than others, and others span multiple hardware generations. When writing a protocol that requires a module, make sure your ``requirements`` or ``metadata`` code block specifies a :ref:`Protocol API version <v2-versioning>` high enough to support all the module generations you want to use.

Reviewer: Do we need to add another table or list here to indicate which modules are usable on Flex vs. OT-2? Expanding this table out to 5 columns would be a bit 😵‍💫 

Leaning towards list because we can say "Flex supports HS, Temp 2, TC 2, and Mag Block only. OT-2 supports everything except Mag Block"

Author: Ouch, a 5-column table would be too much. I wonder if adding more text adds complexity without help. Instead, it may be simpler to call out a module only when it doesn't work with a particular robot. 

For example, the draft already does this now with the Magnetic Module and Magnetic Block. There's a note under the section header that says, "Recommended for use with _insert robot here_ only." 

Unless we say something, the default assumption (dangerous) should be all modules work with all robots unless indicated otherwise.

Loading Labware onto a Module
=============================

You'll use the :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.load_labware` method when loading labware on a module. For example, this code shows how to load the `Opentrons 24 Well Aluminum Block <https://labware.opentrons.com/opentrons_24_aluminumblock_generic_2ml_screwcap?category=aluminumBlock>`_ on top of a Temperature Module::

    def run(protocol: protocol_api.ProtocolContext):
        temp_mod = protocol.load_module("temperature module gen2", "D1")
        temp_labware = temp_mod.load_labware(
            "opentrons_24_aluminumblock_generic_2ml_screwcap",

>             "Temperature-Controlled Tubes",

Reviewer: i think keep `label=` here for clarity. add `load_name=` too if you like.

Author: Yikes, overlooked that. Will fix.

        )

.. versionadded:: 2.0

> When you load labware on a module, you don’t need to specify the deck slot. In the above example, the ``load_module`` method already includes a location (e.g. ``location= "D1"``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you load labware on a module, you don’t need to specify the deck slot. In the above example, the ``load_module()`` method already specifies where the module is on the deck: ``location= "D1"``.
```

Any :ref:`v2-custom-labware` added to your Opentrons App is also accessible when loading labware onto a module. You can find and copy its load name by going to its card on the Labware page.

.. versionadded:: 2.1

> .. Should the section below be a warning? 

Reviewer: note or separate section is good. i don't think anything really bad come of it. the pipettes should clear whatever stack you create, and if you exceed max z-height you should get an analysis error.

Module and Labware Compatibility
--------------------------------

It's your responsibility to ensure the labware and module combinations you load together work together. The Protocol API won't raise a warning or error if you load an unusual combination, like placing a tube rack on a Thermocycler. See `What labware can I use with my modules? <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/What-labware-can-I-use-with-my-modules>`_ for more information about labware/module combinations.

Additional Labware Parameters
-----------------------------

In addition to the mandatory ``load_name`` argument, you can also specify additional parameters. If you specify a ``label``, this name will appear in the Opentrons App and the run log instead of the load name. For labware that has multiple definitions, you can specify ``version`` and ``namespace`` (though most of the time you won't have to). Modules with methods that accept additional parameters include:

- :py:meth:`.MagneticModuleContext.load_labware`
- :py:meth:`.TemperatureModuleContext.load_labware`
- :py:meth:`.ThermocyclerContext.load_labware`
- :py:meth:`.HeaterShakerContext.load_labware`

> - :py:meth:`.MagneticBlockContext.load_labware`

Reviewer: Shorter possibility:
`The ``load_labware()`` methods of all powered modules accept these additional parameters.`
Then we won't have to maintain this list ad infinitum.

Author: Revised to use the recommended shorter text.

The Temperature Module is represented in code by a :py:class:`.TemperatureModuleContext` object, which has methods for setting target temperatures and reading the module's status.

> The examples in this section use a Temperature Module loaded in Flex deck slot D3, which corresponds to deck slot 3 on the OT-2.

Reviewer: style: avoid noun-noun compounds like `Flex deck slot`. 
```suggestion
The examples in this section use a Temperature Module loaded in deck slot D3 on Flex, which corresponds to deck slot 3 on OT-2.
```

Author: Added to batch commit.

.. code-block:: python
    :substitutions:

    def run(protocol: protocol_api.ProtocolContext):
        temp_mod = protocol.load_module('temperature module gen2', 'D3')
        plate = temp_mod.load_labware('corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat')

The supported deck slot positions for the Temperature Module depend on the robot you’re using.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 80
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Robot Model
     - Temperature Module Deck Placement
   * - Flex
     - In any deck slot in column 1 or 3. You could put it in slot A3, but you'd need to move the trash bin first.
   * - OT-2
     - In deck slots 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, or 10.

> To properly align the module relative to the robot, make sure its exhaust, power, and USB ports face outward, away from the center of the deck. This keeps the exhaust port clear and helps make cable routing and access easier.

Reviewer: This is more of hardware/installation guidance. I think we can omit it in API docs.

Using a Magnetic Module
***********************

The Magnetic Module controls a set of permanent magnets which can move vertically to induce a magnetic field in the labware loaded on the module. 

> .. put in a note: This module works with the OT-2 only. You cannot use it on a Flex liquid handling robot. 

Reviewer: cross-ref link to Magnetic Block in the note (TK) would be great!

  .. code-block:: python

      mag_mod.engage(height_from_base= 13.5)  # 13.5 mm

>       mag_mod.engage(offset= -2)              # 15.5 mm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      mag_mod.engage(height_from_base= 13.5)  # 13.5 mm
      mag_mod.engage(offset= -2)              # 15.5 mm
```
this is [incorrect Black style](https://black.vercel.app/?version=stable&state=_Td6WFoAAATm1rRGAgAhARYAAAB0L-Wj4ADJAHxdAD2IimZxl1N_WmBarQbnJKfJtIiEZbSAyV_cJCwarvC4do0Z4CBOrjeOmGnW-IXv2gdAh840JGP1gTNhTZB0OpUT2meM6-XntRvriff8iaCxc_5HgEwuWhrbzjOeqVheRu19KZgG0hjXj2IYhTKkmNJPbGT-Z9-sxNR8-eYAx11zQzGycj0AAZgBygEAABYNMhexxGf7AgAAAAAEWVo=). there should be no spaces between a parameter and its value.

Author: Will fix and push change.

Changes with the GEN2 Magnetic Module
=====================================

> The GEN2 Magnetic Module uses smaller magnets than the GEN1 version. This change helps mitigate an issue with the magnets attracting beads from their retracted position, but it also takes longer for the GEN2 module to attract beads. The recommended attraction time is 5 minutes for liquid volumes up to 50 µL and 7 minutes for volumes greater than 50 µL. If your application needs additional magnetic strength to attract beads, use the available `Adapter Magnets <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Adapter-magnets>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GEN2 Magnetic Module uses smaller magnets than the GEN1 version. This change helps mitigate an issue with the magnets attracting beads from their retracted position, but it also takes longer for the GEN2 module to attract beads. The recommended attraction time is 5 minutes for liquid volumes up to 50 µL and 7 minutes for volumes greater than 50 µL. If your application needs additional magnetic strength to attract beads within these timeframes, use the available `Adapter Magnets <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Adapter-magnets>`_.
```
I think "within these timeframes" is important — the weaker magnets will still attract the beads _eventually_, but time may be of the essence in a particular application.

.. code-block:: python

        for i in range(20):
            tc_mod.set_block_temperature(95, hold_time_seconds= 30, block_max_volume= 32)
            tc_mod.set_block_temperature(57, hold_time_seconds= 30, block_max_volume= 32)

>             tc_mod.set_block_temperature(72, hold_time_seconds= 60, block_max_volume= 32)

Reviewer: revert

Author: Reverted. Will push changes.

The Heater-Shaker Module provides on-deck heating and orbital shaking. The module can heat from 37 to 95 °C, and can shake samples from 200 to 3000 rpm.

The Heater-Shaker Module is represented in code by a :py:class:`.HeaterShakerContext` object. For example::

    def run(protocol: protocol_api.ProtocolContext):
         hs_mod = protocol.load_module('heaterShakerModuleV1', "D1")

.. versionadded:: 2.13

> Placement Restrictions

Reviewer: Just confirmed with Sanniti: All of the placement restrictions (adjacent stuff, pipetting nearby) are only for OT-2. The caddy and deck border design of Flex means you can put whatever you want next to H-S.

Loading Labware
===============

> Like with all modules, use the Heater-Shaker’s :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.load_labware` method to specify what you will place on the module. For the Heater-Shaker, you must use a definition that describes the combination of a thermal adapter and labware that fits it.

Reviewer: soften language here — you no longer "must" us a combination adapter. and on the Labware page, i suggested _not to_, if you're on 2.15+. 

i also added a `labware-on-adapters` anchor that we can cross-reference from here.

   * - Opentrons 96 Flat Bottom Adapter with NEST 96 Well Plate 200 µL Flat
     - ``opentrons_96_flat_bottom_adapter_nest_wellplate_200ul_flat``
   * - Opentrons 96 PCR Adapter with Armadillo Well Plate 200 µL
     - ``opentrons_96_pcr_adapter_armadillo_wellplate_200ul``
   * - Opentrons 96 PCR Adapter with NEST Well Plate 100 µL
     - ``opentrons_96_pcr_adapter_nest_wellplate_100ul_pcr_full_skirt``
   * - Opentrons Universal Flat Adapter with Corning 384 Well Plate 112 µL Flat
     - ``opentrons_universal_flat_adapter_corning_384_wellplate_112ul_flat``

Standalone Well-Plate Adapters
------------------------------

You can use these standalone adapter definitions to load Opentrons verified or custom labware on top of the Heater-Shaker.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Adapter Type
     - API Load Name
   * - Opentrons Universal Flat Adapter
     - ``opentrons_universal_flat_adapter``
   * - Opentrons 96 PCR Adapter
     - ``opentrons_96_pcr_adapter``
   * - Opentrons 96 Deep Well Adapter
     - ``opentrons_96_deep_well_adapter``
   * - Opentrons 96 Flat Bottom Adapter
     - ``opentrons_96_flat_bottom_adapter``

> Custom Flat-Bottom Labware

Reviewer: this can roll up into the standalone adapters section. you don't need a custom labware definition anymore.

.. note::

	Since API version 2.13, only the Heater-Shaker Module supports non-blocking command execution. All other modules' methods are blocking commands.

Blocking commands
-----------------

> Here is an example of how to use a blocking command and shake a sample for one minute. No other commands will execute until a minute has elapsed. For example, the three commands in this code sample start the shake, wait for one minute, and then stop the shake::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how to use a blocking command and shake a sample for one minute. No other commands will execute until a minute has elapsed. The three commands in this example start the shake, wait for one minute, and then stop the shake::
```
tighten prose, avoid repeating "example/sample"

Deactivating
============

> Deactivating the heater and shaker are done separately using the :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.deactivate_heater` and :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.deactivate_shaker` respectively. There is no method to deactivate both simultaneously, so call the two methods in sequence if you need to stop both heating and shaking.

Reviewer: might as well go for:
```suggestion
Deactivate the heater and shaker separately with the :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.deactivate_heater` and :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.deactivate_shaker` respectively. There is no method to deactivate both simultaneously, so call the two methods in sequence if you need to stop both heating and shaking.
```

.. note:: 

    The robot will not automatically deactivate the Heater-Shaker at the end of a protocol. If you need to deactivate the module after a protocol is completed or canceled, use the Heater-Shaker module controls on the device detail page in the Opentrons App or run these methods in Jupyter notebook.

.. _magnetic-block:

> *****************************
> Using a Magnetic Block Module
> *****************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**********************
Using a Magnetic Block
**********************
```
it's a module but it's name is Magnetic Block ~Module~ 🤪

> The Magnetic Block is an unpowered, 96-well plate that holds labware close to its high-strength neodymium magnets. It is suitable for many magnetic bead-based protocols, but unlike the Magnetic Module, the Magnetic Block does not move beads up or down in solution. This module is recommended for use with the Flex only.

Reviewer: not just recommended. it is not for use on anything except Flex.

> Because the Magnetic Block is unpowered, neither your robot nor the Opentrons App aware of this module. You control it via protocols that use the `Opentrons Flex Gripper <https://shop.opentrons.com/opentrons-flex-gripper-gen1/>`_ to move labware on and off the module. After the ``load_module`` method loads labware into your protocol, it returns the :py:class:`~opentrons.protocol_api.MagneticBlockContext`. For example::

Reviewer: generally include empty parentheses when referring to methods by name: `load_module()`

Author: Fixed in upcoming in-progress draft.

    def run(protocol_api.ProtocolContext):
        mag_block = protocol.load_module('magneticBlockV1', 'D1')

> .. load something on the magnetic block here example.

Reviewer: can be part of the above snippet. it uses `load_labware()` like all other module contexts.

> See :ref:`Moving Labware` for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`moving-labware` for more information.
```
anchor. link text will read "Moving Labware" once all is merged.

Author: Github says changes are outdated. Will resolve for now.

***************************************
Using Multiple Modules of the Same Type
***************************************

It's possible to use multiples of most module types within a single protocol. The exception is the Thermocycler Module, which only has one supported deck location due to its size. Running protocols with multiple modules of the same type requires version 4.3 or newer of the Opentrons App and robot server. 

> In order to send commands to the correct module on the deck, you need to load the modules in your protocol in a specific order. Whenever you call :py:meth:`.load_module` for a particular module type, the robot will initialize the matching module attached to the lowest-numbered USB port. Deck slot numbers play no role in the ordering of modules; you could load a Temperature Module in slot C1 first, followed by another one in slot D3:

Reviewer: the notion here was to have the "higher" number slot load first. so maybe D1 first, then C1, or something like that. (there's less of an obvious ordering with coordinate slots than numeric slots)

Author: Yes, this is a good idea. I will try to make it more clear in the text. As you note, it is tricky with Flex because of the alphanumeric deck system. Visually row D is first or closest to the user, followed by C, but C comes before D in the alphabet. I will use an example with a module in D3/usb 2 and C1 usb 6 (to match the usb connections on the image) to show how a module on D3 would load before C1 because of the usb port number.

Author: Pushed revisions to draft this morning.

    metadata = {'apiLevel': '2.3'}

    def run(protocol: protocol_api.ProtocolContext):
        # Load Temperature Module 1 in deck slot C1 on USB port 1
        temperature_module_1 = protocol.load_module('temperature module gen2', "C1")

        # Load Temperature Module 2 in deck slot D3 on USB port 2
        temperature_module_2 = protocol.load_module('temperature module gen2', "D3")
        
For this code to work as expected, ``temperature_module_1`` should be plugged into a lower-numbered USB port than ``temperature_module_2``. Assuming there are no other modules used in this protocol, it's simplest to use ports 1 and 2, like this:

.. Will need 2 images for OT-2 and Flex, or 1 generic image that covers both.

.. image:: ../img/modules/multiples_of_a_module.svg

Before running your protocol, it's a good idea to use the module controls in the Opentrons App to check that commands are being sent where you expect.

> .. Does the support article apply to Flex?

Reviewer: let's check with support.

Author: Checking in Slack: https://opentrons.slack.com/archives/C0JLZLPL3/p1690306874357039
